SYAI  
June 2023  
1  
Roles  
PERSON_1 →Project manager  
PERSON_2 →Lead AI/ML Developer  
PERSON_3 →Back-end Developer  
PERSON_4 →AI/ML Developer & Back-End  
2  
Interview  
Bold - questions  
Italic - answers  
What specific services or functions would you like the AI chatbot  
to provide to your customers?  
The main purpose of the chatbot is to automate the client support, so we  
want it to do all the things the operators are doing. Answer the questions of  
the customers, ask for personal information (phone number and number of gas  
station) and suggest compensation of needed. In the future me might want to  
add a payed subscription.  
What are the most common types of technical issues or inquiries  
your customers usually face?  
Most common issues are related to the quality of the service (staff’s errors,  
incompetence, or impoliteness). More rarely we recieve complaints about the  
quality of food, or tecnhical malfunction of the gas station  
As we found out, you already have a support system on your web-  
site, how do you handle the queries? Could you please describe the  
work of the current system  
The first free employee responds to the customer according to the official  
template. He gathers the information and tries to solve the problem of the cus-  
tomer. If he’s unable to do that, he passes the information to the administration  
of particular gas station to troubleshoot, and suggests a compensation (if needed)  
Are there any specific technologies or platforms you prefer the  
chatbot to be built on? (t.bot, part of website, web appliation, mobile  
application, etc.)  
Since there is a window of technical support on our website, we would like  
to have it built into our website. (Don’t you consider that if you, for ex-  
ample, put banners of tg bot alias on the gas stations, it would be  
easier for a customer with mobile phone to open a tg bot, rather than  
a website with a relatively small window for tech. support?) Well, in  
this case the telegram bot is an option for consideration. In this case, it would be  
easier for customers to do this on the go. I think, this kind of system would be  
great as well. Moreover, I see this bot as an opportunity to notify clients about  
promotions and special offers  
1  
Are there any regulatory or compliance requirements that the  
chatbot should adhere to, such as data privacy regulations?  
Do you have any existing knowledge base or documentation that  
the chatbot can reference for providing accurate technical informa-  
tion?  
Yes we do.  
(Could you provide us with it?) Yes, we could do it in a few hours  
How would you like the chatbot to integrate with your existing  
systems or databases to retrieve relevant customer information?  
As we told earlier, we can provide you with all the necessary information we  
have at the moment, all the newer information your system may gather, store,  
and process itself  
What are your expectations regarding the response time and avail-  
ability of the chatbot to customers?  
We want it to respond to the clients as soon as possible.  
(Our hardware resources are limited for that, it would only be possi-  
ble if you provide your own hardware) We can provide you with everything  
you need  
Are there any specific branding guidelines or language preferences  
you would like the chatbot to follow when interacting with customers?  
The main point is that it would work in russian. Since the gas stations are  
located in Moscow, there is no need to customize via different languages.  
Would you like the chatbot to offer proactive suggestions or rec-  
ommendations to customers based on their inquiries?  
We didn’t think about that. We will discuss it and give you a particular  
answer next meeting  
Do you have any preferences for the chatbot’s user interface or  
design? Should it have a personality or maintain a more professional  
tone?  
We will present you the template. We want it to be polite and professional,  
but we don’t really want the customer to understand that he’s talking not to a  
person  
How would you like the chatbot to handle escalations or transfers  
to human agents, if necessary?  
If the bot understands he’s unable to handle the request, or client is unsat-  
isfied, we may leave the option to contact the manager of particular gas station  
(by giving his contact or transferring the request to him)  
3  
Screenshots board  
& Qualitative Analysis table  
2  
Figure 1: Screenshots board  
main features  
applied technol-  
ogy  
service fee  
disadvantages  
voice  
assis-  
tant  
PERSON_5  
PERSON_5’s voice assistant is able to  
give useful tips and life hacks  
from Tinkoff Magazine; Advise  
on banking issues and promo-  
tions; Change personal data in  
the Tinkoff ecosystem;  
Order  
and send electronic documents  
(for example, a certificate for the  
embassy)  
Tinkof VoiceKit  
0 rubles, all the  
functionality of  
the bot is avail-  
able  
from  
200  
rubles/month  
complexity and  
high cost of de-  
velopment  
Alfa-  
Bank:  
bot  
Shows the nearest ATM, branch,  
exchange rates and search results  
from the site  
a  
regular  
tele-  
gram bot  
0 rubles  
there is no inte-  
gration of artifi-  
cial intelligence,  
limited  
use  
on  
desktops  
Sber  
busi-  
ness  
bot  
The service allows businesses to  
connect a virtual assistant on a  
website or in a messenger with-  
out spending money on their  
own developments, the bank ex-  
plained  
GPT-3.5, mod-  
ified  
with  
the  
help of machine  
learning  
meth-  
ods  
from  
1000  
rubles/month  
complexity and  
high  
cost  
of  
development  
4  
Report  
4.1  
Interview Reflection  
According to the interview, we can have an approximate understanding of what  
we have to do. We need to create a telegram-based AI chatbot that can answer  
customers’ questions, process and respond to their complaints, suggest compen-  
sations, clear chat history, and possibly allow paying for the subscription. The  
bot should provide human-like answers following a particular template ASAP  
and transfer the customers to the manager of a particular gas station. It should  
only support the Russian language. The suggested bot will be able to serve  
as clients’ support for the network of gas stations in Moscow and the Moscow  
3  
Region; it would also be easily accessible from mobile devices on the go since  
the majority of the population has telegram installed on their gadgets.  
4.2  
Qualitative Research Results  
Our research revealed three main insights: the importance of user-friendly in-  
terfaces from Alpha Bank’s AI chatbot, the value of predictive service from  
SberBusiness chatbot, and the appealing blend of professionalism with person-  
ality from AI assistant PERSON_5 by Tinkoff.  
These findings will guide our project in the following ways: we will pri-  
oritize creating an easy-to-use interface, incorporate predictive capabilities for  
proactive customer service, and aim for a balance between a professional and  
personable interaction style. This concise understanding will allow us to enhance  
our project while staying attuned to industry-leading practices.  
4.3  
Questions for future reference  
Having completed the initial research and client interview, here are some ques-  
tions that still need to be addressed:  
1. What kind of compensation methods does the company usually offer to  
its customers and how can we implement this into the AI chatbot system?  
2. How should the chatbot handle client dissatisfaction?  
Should it learn  
from these instances and if so, how should it integrate this learning into  
its future responses?  
3. As the company expands its services or alters its products, how will the  
chatbot be updated to reflect these changes?  
4. What criteria will be used to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of  
the AI chatbot?  
4.4  
Next steps  
To deliver the most value to the customer, we believe the following should be  
our next steps:  
1. Begin the development of the AI chatbot, prioritizing the integration of  
existing customer service protocols and frequent inquiries.  
2. Work on the bot’s ability to ask for and handle sensitive information like  
phone numbers and gas station numbers.  
3. Given the interest in a paid subscription feature, we should plan for this  
future addition.  
4. Plan to incorporate the bot into both the company’s website and a Tele-  
gram bot, ensuring it’s mobile-friendly for ease of access.  
5. Develop a system for real-time updates regarding promotions and special  
offers, as desired by the client.  
6. Given the preference for a nearly human-like interaction, we should fo-  
cus on refining the chatbot’s language to be polite and professional, and  
integrate the client’s branding guidelines.  
7. Work on designing an efficient and smooth system for escalations or trans-  
fers to human agents when necessary.  
4