Assignment 1 
Team members and their roles: 
Customer: PERSON_1 
Dataset Team: PERSON_2, PERSON_3 
Detector Team: PERSON_4, PERSON_5 
Classifier Team: PERSON_6 
Team members: PERSON_6, PERSON_2, PERSON_5, PERSON_4, PERSON_3. 
Interview Script: 
A few days before the meeting, we met with the team and discussed the project and its 
implementation. We began to think about how we would implement this project. We 
discussed ideas, possible role distribution and tried to find similar projects that have a similar 
idea. After analyzing and deriving the criteria for evaluating each of them: the accuracy of 
determining the seal, the volume of the database on which the machine was trained, the 
quality of the classification, work with a variety of seals. We also thought about the platform 
where this project will be implemented and brought this thought as a question. We searched 
for databases of documents containing seals and made sure that they were indeed in the 
public domain. Each of us gave a number of questions that interested them, after which they 
identified a number of the most important of them: 
1)   What platform will we use for this project? 
2)   Is there a stack preference? (which libraries, algorithms) 
3)   What is the input/output format for the documents? 
4)   Which types of figures would be represented as stamps? 
5)   How should we classify stamps? 
6)  Should we use AI to generate documents or is any graphical library ok? 
7)  Will there be overlapping seals? How many stamps would consist of a document? 
8)  Do we need to train models such that it recognizes the particular set of stamps or just   
classifies their shape? 
 
9) What languages do the documents use? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Research existing solutions: 
 
Characteristic\Link  
https://www.hindawi.c
om/journals/mpe/2015
/367879/  
(Advanced AI 
model) 
https://vc.ru/newtecha
udit/611937-
raspoznavanie-
kruglyh-pechatey 
(Very simple Hough 
transform approach 
with manually 
derived coefficients) 
https://www.researchgat
e.net/publication/224265
585_Stamp_Detection_i
n_Color_Document_Ima
ges 
(Model with manually 
derived formulas and 
coefficients) 
Accuracy of detection 
70.44% 
81% 
83% 
Size of the database 
400 documents 
- 
400 documents 
Accuracy of classification 
Approximately 98% 
(number are a bit 
different for some 
shapes) 
- 
- 
Overlaying stamps 
detection 
The model has some 
problems, but it 
supports such 
functionality 
- 
Model has an 
acceptable accuracy of 
69% in such complex 
scenarios 
 
All the existing approaches use the YCbCr color model instead of RGB.  
1) https://www.hindawi.com/journals/mpe/2015/367879/  
To detect circular stamps CHT(Circular Hough Transforms) are used. Image is 
binarised, Canny filtering is performed, and noise is removed before using CHT. 
A separate complex approach is used to detect figures, consisting of straight lines. 
Several parameters are evaluated in order to get the shape of the detected stamp, like 
roundness, squareness and others. 
2) https://vc.ru/newtechaudit/611937-raspoznavanie-kruglyh-pechatey 
To detect stamps on the list, we should determine the figures on the list. This project 
identifies the presence of round seals on the page of the scanned document. It uses 
Python language and several useful libraries, such as: open source, matplotlib.pyplot, 
numpy, imutils , which will help us in our project. Also Hough Transformation used 
to parametrically identify the geometric elements of a raster image. The disadvantages 
of this project are: absence of database, classification of stamps. But a good feature is 
high accuracy detection is 81%. 
3) https://www.researchgate.net/publication/224265585_Stamp_Detection_in_Color_Document
_Images 
This model is based on color ink cloud elongated shapes detection. It works well with 
logos, as authors detect them looking at nearby color areas. Both 200 and 300 ppi 
documents give high accuracy. 
 
Interview notes/transcript; 
 
We made an appointment for 3pm on Sunday. It went online on Zoom. Our entire team and 
customers were present. By agreement with the customer, we communicated in Russian. At 
the beginning, we talked about ourselves, about our main skills and about our experience with 
computer vision technology. After that, the customer announced that due to the fact that 
many teams chose his project, he prepared another one, which is very similar to the original, 
but still with core features. It was a signature recognition project. Due to the similarity of the 
projects, we decided that we would make a final decision after the meeting, and the list of 
questions did not change much, so we were able to ask all the questions we were interested in 
and received detailed answers to them: 
 
1) What platform will we use for this project? Do we need to make some kind of front-end 
for this project? 
Answer: no need 
 
2) Is there a stack preference? (which libraries, algorithms) 
Answer: There is no specific stack, but it is recommended to use python 
 
3) What is the input/output format for the documents? 
Answer: Image with varying resolution starting from 200 ppi 
 
4) Which types of figures would be represented as stamps? 
Answer: various forms, the program must be able to recognize all 
 
5) How should we classify stamps? 
Answer: the customer explained to us the actual application of this project, on the basis of 
which it became clear what is meant by classification. The real application is as follows: 
some company wants to know about the sending of their documents from the company and 
for this they need a program that will be able to find stamps on documents and determine 
whether they are stamps or not. (He also answered the 8th question with this answer) 
 
6) Should we use AI to generate documents or is any graphical library ok? 
Answer: it will be enough to have an algorithm that will generate a document with printing in 
a random place, there is no need to train a model or use AI for these purposes 
 
7) Will there be overlapping seals? How many stamps would consist of a document? 
Answer: To begin with, we will not consider the case of intersecting seals, but in the future 
we may return to this topic, it all depends on how successfully our team will cope with the 
project. The number of stamps on the document is not limited 
 
9) What languages do the documents use? 
Answer: in the implementation of our project, which the customer imagines, there is no need 
to know in which language to write the document 
 
After asking questions and receiving answers, the customer noted that he believes that this is 
more of a research project, he wants to see what problems we will face and how we will solve 
them, how quickly we will find and analyze information. 
At the end of the meeting, the team decided that we would like to do the initial project to 
determine the seals on the documents. 
 
 
Report: 
 
1) From a conversation with the customer, we determined that this project should be 
created to recognize classified and genuine documents. This goal can be pursued by 
companies to prevent data leakage. The main tasks will be the detection and 
classification of stamps. Moreover, no matter what language the document uses. The 
model only must distinguish the text and the stamp. Besides, the customer advised us 
to use python for it. Our task is to train a model, and no design representation is 
required. 
 
2) After studying the available research, we found which python libraries are better to 
use for such a project. We also found out that machine learning models for detection 
do not support seal classification well, which is what we have to do. 
 
3) After discussing the goals and ways of dealing with this project, some questions 
appeared about generating documents: 
● Should we use stamps appropriate for this document on the subject or the 
meaning of the seal and the document are not important? 
● How many different stamps should be applied to documents? Will 20 stamps 
be enough for this? 
● Is it possible to take a ready-made dataset of documents and print over them? 
● How to differentiate “stamps” and “not stamps” for classification? 
 
4) The next step is to split the big task into several smaller ones to separate the 
responsibilities. Everyone must choose in which area he will work. At first glance, 
there are 3 main topics: dataset generation, a model for detection, and the 
implementation of stamp classification. 
For the most efficient execution of a project, we should firstly focus on creation of a 
dataset for analysis. After that, we can move to detection and classification problems. 
The model must determine whether there is an object similar to a stamp on the 
document, how many such objects are. We also initially assume that no intersections 
of seals are implied. Next, it needs to find out their location, for each to display the 
coordinates