Store and analyzing grades 
Customer: PERSON_1 PERSON_2 
Team: 
1. PERSON_3 PERSON_4 – Leader, Project Manager, Front-end developer 
2. PERSON_5 PERSON_6 – Back-end and Front-end developer 
3. PERSON_7 PERSON_8 – Front-end developer, Designer 
4. PERSON_9 PERSON_10 – Product manager, Back-end developer 
5. PERSON_11 PERSON_12 PERSON_13 – Back-end developer, System architect 
Audio record from interview: 
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/104a9RkTV2N8ed-
jqG0pQ5lRoQODd9yuL?usp=sharing 
Interview Script 
1. What problem should the project solve? 
2. What methods or services did you use to solve this problem? 
3. Why is this solution unsatisfactory for you? 
4. Who will use the service? 
5. Could you give a brief description of the project? 
6. Could you provide some examples of the services that look similar to the result you 
want to get? 
7. What type of app the project should be? (web-app, mobile app, etc.) 
8. If it is a web-app, do you want to use it on computer, mobile phone or both? 
9. What is the minimum functionality of the application you expect?  
10. What should the service receive as input? 
11. Should the service save the received data? 
12. How users can log in to the service? 
13. How the service should analyze grades? 
14. Do you have a preference for the technologies or programming languages you use? 
15. Do you have any design preferences? 
16. Are there any features you would like to add? 
17. What should not be in the project? 
 
 
 
Qualitative analysis 
Moodle 
Excel 
Zoho sheets 
Free 
+ 
+/- 
+ 
Dynamically updated 
+ 
- 
- 
Automatic grades 
analysis 
+ 
- 
- 
User-friendly 
interface 
- 
+ 
+ 
Can be reused 
+ 
- 
- 
Web-application 
+ 
- 
+ 
Interview notes 
1. Implement a web application for quick and convenient student assessment 
2. Add the ability to combine students into teams and evaluate both team work and individual 
work. 
3. Add the ability to add bonus points 
4. Grading is carried out as a percentage, excluding bonus points 
5. Ability to save and export the table in csv or xlsx format 
6. The input file is a csv table with constant fields 
7. Add the ability to change assessment thresholds 
8. It is necessary that the table is dynamically updated and it is possible to add new 
assignments 
9. Need to make password protection 
Goals and objectives 
The main task of the project is to implement a service that allows you to easily and quickly evaluate the work of 
students on the course "Software Developing". The service must be dynamically updated according to the 
requirements of the course and have 2 types of assessments: team and individual. Also, the service will accept a 
table with some constant fields as input. The service will be used only for work on a computer, so there is no need 
to adapt it to different devices. During the interview, the customer offered us 2 options for the implementation of 
the project: 
1. Script 
2. Web application 
Since the customer explained that the web application is more convenient for him, we chose the second option. 
Web Application 
For whom? 
This service is designed to be used for only one course, so there is no need to register multiple accounts and 
support the collaboration function. In the future, the customer would like to add a function to add new users, but 
clarified that this is not a necessary part of the application. This application will be used only by course instructors, 
students will not have access to it. 
Interface and functionality 
The service should be able to download the initial data that was described above and upload the finished table 
with grades in the format csv or xlsx. The web application should also provide a dynamically updated table for 
grading students both in teams and individually, in addition, the ability to add bonus points should be 
implemented. Grading is carried out as a percentage, excluding bonus points The web application should read the 
final grade of students and be able to change the criteria for obtaining a particular grade. In addition, there should 
be a built-in analysis of estimates, which will later be agreed with the customer. In addition, the service should 
save intermediate result of grading, so it should be password protected. 
Research results 
As a result of the study, it became clear that none of the existing ways to implement this functionality is 
inefficient for the customer. The customer used Moodle and Excel spreadsheets. Moodle is an inefficient solution 
due to the inconvenient interface, there was a problem that after filling out the table, users forgot to save them. 
Another problem is that Moodle has a large number of unused functions that interfere with fast and efficient 
work. Based on this, the new project will implement automatic data saving, as well as the minimum required 
interface. Excel is inefficient due to the fact that it does not have a built-in function for analyzing grades, this had 
to be added manually, also Excel spreadsheets are not dynamically updated and cannot be reused, as a result of 
which we will add the corresponding functions to our application. In addition, another service "Zoho sheets" was 
analyzed, which, although it is a web application, unlike Excel spreadsheets, does not have sufficient functionality.  
Questions 
At the moment, it is not clear what kind of grades analysis the customer expects, and also which fields the input 
table will contain. These and other questions will be addressed at future meetings with the customer. 
Next steps 
The next steps in the development of the service: 
1. Think over the architecture of the project 
2. Draw up a project development plan (roadmap) 
3. Prototype the application 
Soon we will provide the customer with a prototype of our web application and ask them to correct the direction 
of development.