Team members, roles:
PERSON_1 - backend (Skills: Rust+Rocket)
PERSON_2 - teamlead + frontend (Skills: Java, C#, HTML, CSS and learning JavaScript
now)
PERSON_3 - frontend (Skills: HTML, CSS, React.js)
PERSON_4 - backend of the searching algorithm (Skills: Java, C#)
PERSON_5 - backend (Skills: C#, Python)
PERSON_6 - backend (Skills: Rust, Python)
Interview script:
Can we use already implemented stuff from SciVenia.com?
Can we show the data on separate sites and give hyperlinks to these sites in a graph (profiles in
SciVenia) or should we give all the information in the graph itself?
What do you mean by creating a metric for citations?
Stack? (React.js, Rust+Rocket)
The best way to communicate with the customer.
Interview notes:
Disclaimer: This is not a transcript but an outline of the main points, written as dialogue to make
the questions and answers more readable.
Presentation:
SciVenia is a professional network for scientists. SciVenia already has the following functionality:
you can create scientific events related to the science and open a scientist profile, which shows
the main information about the scientist. Our project is the scientist network for SciVenia, which is
an extension of the scientist profile. But our project will be separate from the site initially. In
general, the goal is to visualize and demonstrate scientific collaboration. SciVenia doesn't have
enough data, so we are going to use third-part APIs. Another goal is to implement searching for
potential collaborators.
Questions:
-Can we use already implemented stuff from SciVenia.com?
-You can, but I prefer this as an independent project. There is a possibility for us to share with
you the graphql playground.
-Can we show the data on separate sites and give hyperlinks to these sites in a graph (profiles in
SciVenia) or should we give all the information in the graph itself?
-This graph should be a kind of interactive graph. You can click, and you can see different
connections. Click on those connections to open other connections. I can look at my professor; I
see him. I can click on him and see all the people who have collaborated with him. If I see
someone interesting to me, I can click on him and see all the connections. You need to use some
visualization techniques. I want you guys to keep the communication going: "We have found
these tools; we think they will work; we can talk about advantages, etc."
-We have the last question about stacks. And one more thing: as you mentioned, the best way to
communicate with you is via Telegram chat. So if we have a question, we can write you in this
chat, and it will be OK, right?
-Yes, this is going to be OK. And what is your last question?
-The last question is to discuss the stack. We chose the technologies with which we already had
experience. And we want to provide them.
-The platform is PHP for the backend and React for the frontend. I think this is most convenient
for the existing system, but I want to hear your suggestions before anything else. So I am
listening for you; which stack did you guys choose?
-We suggest Rust+Rocket for the backend and React.js for the frontend. And questions about
databases. You suggest using the Graph OpenAIRE database, but we can also use anything we
want, right?
-For the database, you can explore some databases. Just try to do some research because Rust
may need to connect to some SDKs.
Skills and roles:
PERSON_1 - backend (Rust+Rocket)
PERSON_2 - teamlead + frontend (HTML, CSS and learning JavaScript now)
PERSON_3 - frontend (HTML, CSS, React.js)
PERSON_4 - backend searching algorithm (Java, C#)
PERSON_5 - backend (C#, Python)
PERSON_6 - backend (Rust, Python)
More questions:
-What do you mean by "create a metric for citations"?
-Here I am interested to see a new metric. You can use Google Scholar and ResearchGate to
see some metric examples.
-Is there a priority for showing scientists, and if it exists, can it be changed by the user?
-Yes, you should select an institution, and then at that institution you can have top scientists, or
you can select them by their field (for example, computer science) Another way is to identify by
locality. So there are many ideas, but I want to see what you propose.
-Can we set a different "distance" between scientists? What I mean by "distance" - it's a number
of graphs related to scientists.
-For example, on Facebook, your distance from any person in the world is seven other people.
So I would like you to identify the distance between you and other people. But you should give it
as a graph. And it is important to identify how many papers we published together.
-So we need some mathematical formula that will give us some collaboration rate, right?
-That would be good. This sounds like a nice metric.
-What would be a preferable time to communicate with you via telegram?
-Actually, the next week I am busy, but I will try to answer you in one day. If you need a quick
response, it's better to ask Daniel; if you need more information about the feature, I will try to
answer in 24 hours. The best time is early in the morning, or from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Link to the recording
Screenshots board:
Facebook Graph Search:
LinkedIn social graph visualization:
Microsoft graph visualization technology:
Qualitative analysis table:
Name
Information in
every separate
cell
Ability to
visualize big
amount of cells
Search
convenience
Visualize social
graph as a
graph
Facebook
Graph Search
10
8
10
0
LinkedIn social
graph
visualization
3
10
5
8
Microsoft graph
visualization
technology
9
9
6
10
The 1-page report:
From the interview, we understood that the customer wants a "professional network for
scientists". It will be part of a bigger project. In that project, the creation of scientific events
and scientists’ profiles already exists. The network should be an extension of the profile.
Something similar exists on Facebook and LinkedIn. Also, we have to implement search by
citation, collaboration, and maybe some other metrics in the future. We can get information
about researchers from open databases or other aggregators.
The study found that most social networks use the social graph to find profiles for
recommendations, but very few of them visualize them exactly in the form of a graph. For
example, such visualization is present on the professional social network LinkedIn, but it
does not allow placing a large amount of information in each individual cell. The best
functionality that allows users to create a graph that best corresponds to the description of
the project comes from the presented technology from the company Microsoft. Their graph
allows users to place a photo in a cell with a popup description. This model can be taken as
the basis for our project, although it requires a number of modifications to meet the
requirements of the customer.
We have to discuss this with the customer:
1.
How exactly the product should look (design)
2.
The project’s stack
3.
Priority of features
4.
What we can do in time
Our next step will be making some test applications. To synchronize our understanding of
the product and the customer’s thoughts.